Release notes for v0.10.0 (#1015)
NeuralEnsemble/python-neo: doc/source/releases/0.10.0.rst

========================
Neo 0.10.0 release notes
========================

27th July 2021

New IO modules
--------------

.. currentmodule:: neo.io

* :class:`CedIO` - an alternative to :class:`Spike2IO`
* :class:`AxonaIO`
* :class:`OpenEphysIO` - handle the binary format
* :class:`PhyIO`
* :class:`SpikeGLXIO`
* :class:`NWBIO` - support for a subset of the `NWB:N`_ format
* :class:`MaxwellIO`

Bug fixes and improvements in IO modules
----------------------------------------

* :class:`NeuralynxIO` was refactored and now supports new file versions (neuraview) and single file loading.
* Legacy versions of old IOs were removed for NeuralynxIO (neuralynxio_v1), BlackrockIO, NeoHdf5IO.
* :class:`NixIOfr` now supports array annotations of :class:`AnalogSignal` objects.

> * The IO modules of this release have been tested with version 0.1.0 of the `ephy_testing_data`_.
> * :class:`NSDFIO` was removed because we can no longer maintain it.
> * all IOs now accept :class:`pathlib.Path` objects.

Reviewer: I would move the housekeeping note about the version of the test files to the end of the list
```suggestion
* :class:`NSDFIO` was removed because we can no longer maintain it.
* all IOs now accept :class:`pathlib.Path` objects.
* The IO modules of this release have been tested with version 0.1.0 of the `ephy_testing_data`_.
```

Removal of Unit and ChannelIndex
--------------------------------

.. currentmodule:: neo.core

In version 0.9.0 :class:`Group` and :class:`ChannelView` were introduced, replacing :class:`Unit` and :class:`ChannelIndex`, which were deprecated.
In this version the deprecated :class:`Unit` and :class:`ChannelIndex` are removed and only the new :class:`Group` and :class:`ChannelView` objects are available.

Supported Python and NumPy versions
-----------------------------------

We no longer support Python 3.6, nor versions of NumPy older than 1.16.

Other new or modified features
------------------------------

* Lists of :class:`SpikeTrain` objects can now also be created from two arrays: one containing spike times
  and the other unit identities of the times (:class:`SpikeTrainList`).
* Object identity is now preserved when using utility :func:`time_slice()` methods.

See all `pull requests`_ included in this release and the `list of closed issues`_.

RawIO modules
-------------

> Internal refactoring of the neo.rawio module about the channel grouping.
> There is a signal_stream field that handles channel groups for signals.
> This enhances the way the :attr:`annotation` and :attr:`array_annotation` attributes are rendered at neo.io level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Internal refactoring of the neo.rawio module regarding channel grouping.
Now the concept of a signal stream is used to handle channel groups for signals.
This enhances the way annotations and array_annotations are rendered at neo.io level.
```

  * CEDIO - an alternative to spike2io
  * AxonaIO
  * OpenEphysIO - handle the binary format
  * PhyIO
  * SpikeGLXIO
  * NWBIO
  * MaxwellIO

RawIO modules
-------------

Internal refactoring of the neo.rawio module about the channel grouping.
There is a signal_stream filed that handle channel groups for signal.

> This enhanced the way annotation and array_annotaion are rendered at neo.io level.

Reviewer: I am not sure if internal changes are interesting here, I thought the release notes are mostly for users, not developers. @apdavison What's your opinion here?

Reviewer 2: I think it is important to track because spikeinterface depend on neo.rawio for wrapping reader. It is good to make it clear. No ?

Reviewer: Ok, with this in mind it makes sense to mention it. I made a suggestion on improving the wording a bit.

> This enhanced the way annotation and array_annotaion are rendered at neo.io level.

Reviewer: If you want to keep this paragraph I would propose:
```suggestion
Internal refactoring of the neo.rawio module regarding channel grouping.
Now the concept of a signal stream is used to handle channel groups for signals.
This enhances the way annotations and array_annotations are rendered at neo.io level.
```
